Update CI/CD doc with high level overview and additional GitHub actions info (#273)
astronomer/docs: cloud/stable/03_deploy/06_ci-cd.md

description: "Automate the deploy process to your Airflow Deployment by setting up a CI/CD pipeline with a Service Account on Astronomer."
---
<!-- markdownlint-disable-file -->

## Overview

Astronomer's support for Service Accounts allows users to push code and deploy to an Airflow Deployment on Astronomer via a Continuous Integration/Continuous Delivery (CI/CD) tool of your choice.

> There are many benefits to deploying DAGs and other changes to Airflow through CI/CD. Specifically, you can:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many benefits to deploying DAGs and other changes to Airflow via a CI/CD workflow. Specifically, you can:
```

- Deploy new and updated DAGs in a way which streamlines the development process amongst team members.
- Decrease the maintenance cost of integrating changes, allowing your team to quickly respond in case of an error or failure.
- Enforce continuous, automating testing, which increases code quality and protects your DAGs in production.

> This guide will walk you through configuring your CI/CD pipeline on Astronomer Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide will walk you through configuring a CI/CD pipeline on Astronomer.
```

> - Deploy new and updated DAGs in a way which streamlines the development process amongst team members.
> - Decrease the maintenance cost of integrating changes, allowing your team to quickly respond in case of an error or failure.
> - Enforce continuous, automating testing, which increases code quality and protects your DAGs in production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Deploy new and updated DAGs in a way that streamlines the development process amongst team members.
- Decrease the maintenance cost of integrating changes, allowing your team to quickly respond in case of an error or failure.
- Enforce continuous, automating testing, which increases code quality and protects your DAGs in production.
```

> ### Example CI/CD Flow

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Example CI/CD Workflow
```

> Consider an Airflow project hosted on Github and deployed to Astronomer. In this scenario, `dev` and `main` branches of an Astronomer project are hosted on GitHub, and `dev` and `prod` Airflow Deployments are hosted on Astronomer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider an Airflow project hosted on GitHub and deployed to Astronomer. In this scenario, a set of `dev` and `main` branches of an Astronomer project are hosted within a single GitHub repository, and `dev` and `prod` Airflow Deployments are hosted within a Workspace on Astronomer.
```

> Using CI/CD, you can automatically deploy DAGs to your Airflow Deployment on Astronomer by pushing or merging code a corresponding branch in GitHub. The general setup would look something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using CI/CD, you can automatically deploy DAGs to your Airflow Deployment on Astronomer by pushing or merging code to a corresponding branch in GitHub. The general setup would look something like this:
```

1. Create two Airflow Deployments within your Astronomer Workspace, one for `dev` and one for `prod`.

> 2. Create a repository in GitHub that hosts Airflow project code for the Workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a repository in GitHub that hosts Airflow project code for all Airflow Deployments within your Astronomer Workspace.
```

This still seemed like it could be a little clearer?

3. In your GitHub code repository, create a `dev` branch off of your `main` branch.
4. Configure your CI/CD tool to deploy to your `dev` Airflow Deployment whenever you push to your `dev` branch, and to deploy to your `prod` Airflow Deployment whenever you merge your `dev` branch into `main`.

> Visually, that would like something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That would look something like this:
```

## Overview

> There are many benefits to deploying your DAGs or changes to Airflow itself through CI/CD, which mirror the general benefits of CI/CD itself:

Author: Simplified this a bit in the latest comit.

> - It serves as a framework for deploying new and updated DAGs, which streamlines and organizes the development process between all team members.
> - It increases the speed of deployment, allowing your team to quickly respond to changes in needs.
> - It facilitates continuous, automating testing, which ensures that changes don't break your DAGs in production.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Serves as a framework for deploying both new DAGs and changes to existing pipelines, which streamlines the development process amongst team members.
- Lowers the maintenance cost of integrating changes, which increases development velocity and allows your team to quickly respond in case of an error or failure.
- Enforces an automated testing cycle that prevents code with breaking changes from being promoted, which increases code quality and protects your DAGs in production.
```

Author: Some slight tweaks to this, but overall incorporated

> ### Example CI/CD setup

Reviewer 2: I think it would make sense to have this section at the end, since it's meant to be a deeper dive into an example setup, which doesn't apply to the next couple of sections.

Author: Do you mean at the end of the document? I thought this example was helpful for visualizing the "why" of CI/CD, which is info I think is better to have towards the beginning of the doc. This also helps break down the CI/CD flow before introducing additional concepts such as Service Accounts and scripts.

> Consider an Airflow project hosted on Github and deployed to Astronomer. In this scenario, `dev` and `main` branches of an Astronomer project are hosted on GitHub, and `dev` and `prd` Airflow Deployments are hosted on Astronomer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consider an Airflow project hosted on GitHub and deployed to Astronomer. In this scenario, `dev` and `main` branches of an Astronomer project are hosted on GitHub, and `dev` and `prod` Airflow Deployments are hosted on Astronomer.
```

I think there's `prd` here throughout - I think most people would get it either way, but would it be cleaner to have `prod`?

Author: If that's standard then let's definitely use `prod`.

> Using CI/CD, you can automatically push DAGs to a Deployment whenever you push or merge code to its respective Github branch. The general setup would look something like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using CI/CD, you can trigger a deploy to your Airflow Deployment on Astronomer by simply pushing or merging code to a corresponding branch in GitHub. The general setup would look something like this:
```

> 1. Create two Airflow Deployments within your Astronomer workspace, one for `dev` and one for `prd`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create two Airflow Deployments within your Astronomer Workspace, one for `dev` and one for `prod`.
```

> 2. Create a code repository that will host your Astronomer project code for this workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a repository in GitHub that will host your code for the Airflow project that you'd like to deploy to either environment in this Astronomer Workspace.
```

Author: Not sure we need to get too specific here. I think we make it clear above that `dev` and `prod` share the same general project, and that you can deploy to both in a single repo.

> 3. Create a `dev` branch for your repository off of your `main` branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. In your GitHub code repository, create a `dev` branch that's set to push to an upstream `main` branch.
```

Author: I think it's implied that the branch will push up to `main`, such that "off of" suffices here.

2. Authenticate to a Docker Registry
3. Push your Image to that Docker Registry

From there, a webhook triggers an update to your Airflow Deployment using the CI/CD tool of your choice. At its core, the Astronomer CLI does the equivalent of the above upon every manual `$ astro deploy`.

The rest of this guide describes how to create a Service Account and what your CI/CD script should look like based on the tool you're using.

## Prerequisites

Before completing this setup, make sure you:

> - Have access to a running Airflow Deployment on Astronomer Cloud.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Have access to a running Airflow Deployment on Astronomer.
```

Let's just keep Astronomer so that we don't have to maintain this/switch to `Astronomer Enterprise` when we copy over - it's the same to the user anyway

2. Authenticate to a Docker Registry
3. Push your Image to that Docker Registry

> From there, a webhook triggers an update to your Airflow Deployment using the CI/CD tool of your choice. At its core, the Astronomer CLI does the equivalent of the above upon every manual `astro deploy`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
From there, a webhook triggers an update to your Airflow Deployment using the CI/CD tool of your choice. At its core, the Astronomer CLI does the equivalent of the above upon every manual `$ astro deploy`.
```

If you would like to see a more complete working example please visit our [full example using Drone-CI](https://github.com/astronomer/airflow-example-dags/blob/main/.drone.yml).

## Step 3: Configure Your CI/CD Pipeline

Depending on your CI/CD tool, configuration will be slightly different. This section will focus on outlining what needs to be accomplished, not the specifics of how.

At its core, your CI/CD pipeline will first authenticate to Astronomer's private registry and then build, tag and push your Docker Image to that registry.

> ## Example Implementation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Example GitHub Actions Workflow
```

Could be more specific here? Don't feel strongly

Author: I don't want people to assume that the advice in this section is only applicable if you are using GH Actions. It should serve as a universal example, but applied using a specific tool.

4. Go to the Actions tab of your GitHub repo and create a new action with a `main.yml` file. To achieve the recommended workflow described in [Overview](/docs/cloud/deploy/ci-cd#overview), use the following action:

    ```yaml
    name: CI
    on:
      push:
        branch: [dev, master]
    jobs:
      dev-push:
        runs-on: ubuntu-latest
        steps:
        - uses: actions/checkout@v1
        - name: Push to registry
          uses: elgohr/Publish-Docker-Github-Action@2.6
          if: github.ref == 'refs/heads/dev'
          with:
              name: <dev-release-name>/airflow:ci-${{ github.sha }}
              username: _
              password: ${{ secrets.SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY }}
              registry: registry.gcp0001.us-east4.astronomer.io
      prod-push:
        runs-on: ubuntu-latest
        steps:
        - uses: actions/checkout@v1
        - name: Push to registry
          uses: elgohr/Publish-Docker-Github-Action@2.6
          if: github.ref == 'refs/heads/master'
          with:

>               name: <prd-release-name>/airflow:ci-${{ github.sha }}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
              name: <prod-release-name>/airflow:ci-${{ github.sha }}
```

              username: _
              password: ${{ secrets.SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY }}
              registry: registry.gcp0001.us-east4.astronomer.io
    ```

    Ensure the branches match the names of the branches in your repository, and replace `<dev-release-name>` and `<prod-release-name>` with the respective release names of your development and production Airflow Deployments on Astronomer.

5. Test the GitHub Action by making a change on your `dev` branch and committing that change. This should update your development Airflow Deployment on Astronomer, which you can confirm in the Astronomer UI. If that update was successful, try then merging `dev` into `master` to update your production Airflow Deployment. If both updates were successful, you now have a functioning, scalable CI/CD pipeline that can automatically deploy code to multiple Airflow Deployments.

> > **Note:** The prod-push action as defined here will run on any push to the `master` branch, including a pull request and merge from the `dev` branch as we recommend.
> >
> >To further restrict this to run only on a pull request, you can limit whether your users can push directly to the `master` branch within your repository or your CI tool, or you could modify the action to make it more limited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** The prod-push action as defined here will run on any push to the `main` branch, including a pull request and merge from the `dev` branch as we recommend.
>
>To further restrict this to run only on a pull request, you can limit whether your users can push directly to the `main` branch within your repository or your CI tool, or you could modify the action to make it more limited.
```

If you would like to see a more complete working example please visit our [full example using Drone-CI](https://github.com/astronomer/airflow-example-dags/blob/main/.drone.yml).

## Step 3: Configure Your CI/CD Pipeline

Depending on your CI/CD tool, configuration will be slightly different. This section will focus on outlining what needs to be accomplished, not the specifics of how.

At its core, your CI/CD pipeline will first authenticate to Astronomer Cloud's private registry and then build, tag and push your Docker Image to that registry.

## Example Implementation

The following setup is an example implementation of CI/CD using GitHub Actions. These steps cover both the implementation and the workflow necessary to create a fully functional CI/CD pipeline.

> 1. Create a GitHub repository for an Astronomer project. Ensure your repo has a development branch and a main branch. In this example, the branches are named `dev` and `master`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a GitHub repository for an Astronomer project. Ensure your repo has a development branch and a main branch. In this example, the branches are named `dev` and `main`.
```

`main` bc it's what we're tryna standardize, and it's what's used above!

> 2. [Create a Service Account](/docs/cloud/deploy/ci-cd#step-1-create-a-service-account) for your Astronomer workspace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [Create a Service Account](/docs/cloud/deploy/ci-cd#step-1-create-a-service-account) for your Astronomer Workspace.
```

> 3. Add that Service Account as a secret to your repository. For Github, follow the instructions in the [GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/encrypted-secrets). To follow this example, name the secret `SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Follow instructions in [GitHub documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/encrypted-secrets) to add your Astronomer Service Account as a secret to your repository. In the example below, that secret is named `SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY`.
```

> 4. Go to the Actions tab of your GitHub repo and create a new action with a `main.yml` file. To achieve the recommended workflow described in the [Overview](/docs/cloud/deploy/ci-cd#overview), use the following action:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Go to the Actions tab of your GitHub repo and create a new action with a `main.yml` file. To achieve the recommended workflow described in [Overview](/docs/cloud/deploy/ci-cd#overview), use the following action:
```

    ```yaml
    name: CI
    on:
      push:
        branch: [dev, master]
    jobs:
      dev-push:
        runs-on: ubuntu-latest
        steps:
        - uses: actions/checkout@v1
        - name: Push to registry
          uses: elgohr/Publish-Docker-Github-Action@2.6
          if: github.ref == 'refs/heads/dev'
          with:
              name: ds-dev1/airflow:ci-${{ github.sha }}
              username: _
              password: ${{ secrets.SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY }}
              registry: registry.gcp0001.us-east4.astronomer.io
      prod-push:
        runs-on: ubuntu-latest
        steps:
        - uses: actions/checkout@v1
        - name: Push to registry
          uses: elgohr/Publish-Docker-Github-Action@2.6
          if: github.ref == 'refs/heads/master'
          with:
              name: ds-prd1/airflow:ci-${{ github.sha }}
              username: _
              password: ${{ secrets.SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY }}

>               registry: registry.gcp0001.us-east4.astronomer.io

Reviewer: We can leave `registry.gcp0001.us-east4.astronomer.io` for Astronomer Cloud since that's everyone's base domain, but technically this should be `registry.<your-astronomer-base-domain>`

    ```

>     Ensure the branches match the names of the branches in your repository, and replace `ds-dev1` and `ds-prd1` with the respective release names of your development and production Airflow Deployments on Astronomer.

Reviewer: @jwitz Should we have placeholders in the example file for `<deployment-release-name>`?

Author: Good call!

GitHub supports a growing set of native CI/CD features in ["GitHub Actions"](https://github.com/features/actions), including a "Publish Docker" action that works well with Astronomer.

> This setup assumes your Astronomer repo on Github consists of one `dev` branch and one `master` branch. You will have to modify the Github Action slightly if you have a different branch architecture.

Reviewer 2: @jwitz so this example CI script was meant to highlight a basic CI/CD flow in practice, because we often get questions from folks newer to CI/CD on how they should set up their developer flow. It wasn't intended to replace the Github Actions section of the how to configure examples in the CI/CD doc. For all of the other CI tools we don't give an opinionated example on how the pipeline should work, just the basic code of how to push the astro images, so I don't think it makes sense to only change this Github actions one.

Author: Got it, didn't realize the new script was more prescriptive than the OG script. In that case, I'm not sure that docs in general is the best place for an opinionated script. I'm worried that people would misinterpret the inclusion of these steps/ scripts as literal setup instructions regardless of how many notes we put in stating otherwise. My idea going forward is to:
1. Integrate the high level recommendations and developer flow example towards the beginning of the doc
2. Keep our scripts as they are and have developers be responsible for configuring the specifics of their tools as needed

Once you've [created a Service Account](/docs/cloud/stable/deploy/ci-cd#create-a-service-account), add the Service Account as a secret to your Github repository as described in GitHub's [Encrypted Secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/encrypted-secrets) document. In this setup, the secret is named `SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY`.

Then, create a new action in your repo at `.github/workflows/main.yml` with the following configuration:

```yaml
name: CI
on:
  push:
    branch: [dev, master]
jobs:
  dev-push:
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
    - uses: actions/checkout@v1
    - name: Push to registry
      uses: elgohr/Publish-Docker-Github-Action@2.6
      if: github.ref == 'refs/heads/dev'
      with:
          name: ds-dev1/airflow:ci-${{ github.sha }}
          username: _
          password: ${{ secrets.SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY }}

>           registry: registry.astro.astronomerdemo.com

Author: Is this line something that could change between setups?

Reviewer 2: yes, it will change. In general it should be 'registry.<your astronomer base domain>'
